# Fractals

- Complex geometric shapes with fine structure at arbitrarily small scales.
- Self similarity
  - Generally upto some scale
  - Generally statitstical similarity
- Strange attractor
  - Have geometrical properties which are self similar

# Countable and Uncountable sets

Any set that is bijective with $\mathcal{N}$ is called countable.

Consider $\mathcal{E} = \{\text{even numbers}\}$ which can be written as 

$$\mathcal{E} = {2n \| n\in \mathcal{N}}$$

But $\mathcal{R}$ is uncountable can be shown by contradiction.
Let $[r_i]$ be the binary expansion of every $r$ in $\mathcal{R}$.
Assume that $\mathcal{R}$ is countable, therefore all $r$ can be indexed by some variable $j$.

Now consider $x$ which has a binary expansion where $x_j = ~r_{j}^j$. This $x$ is different from every $r^j$ at the $j$th position, which is a contradiction.

# Fractal Sets - Cantor set

Consider a line from $l_0 = [0, 1]$. Generate $l_1$ by removing $[1/3, 2/3]$. Generate $l_2$ by removing the middle third of each segment. Then, the Cantor set is defined as all the points in $l_\infty$


## What is the measure of this Cantor set?

Any $l_i$ must be smaller than $l_j$ for all $j<i$. Hence, $l_\infty$ must be smaller than all $l_i$. 

Now $l_i$ has a length of $(2/3)^n$. Hence, taking $\lim_{n\to\infty}$ gives a length for $l_\infty = 0$

## How many points in the set?

Consider the ternery expansion of any $r$ in $[0, 1]$. It is of the form $r = \sum r_i (1/3)^i$ where $r\in \{0, 1, 2\}$. Geometrically, $r$ lies in the $r_i\th$ third in the $r_{i-1}\th$ segment.
Hence, the Cantor set is the set of all points which don't exist in the second third in any segment. This implies that they don't have a $1$ in their ternary expansion.
Now to show that the Set is uncountable, we again assume that it is countable, and generate an $x$ such that $x_i = 2 - r^j_j$ which will not be a part of the set, exactly like in [[#Countable and Uncountable sets\|Real numbers]]

> Hence, the Cantor set has uncountably many points but still has a measure of 0


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[#Countable and Uncountable sets|Real numbers]: Fractals "Fractals"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"